GCP

What is a GCP Project?
Project is a container for billing, permissions, and resources.
Owner can assign rights to users
Owner can turn services on and off

Project ID - 3 ways
Name - Friendly Name 
ID - Unique ID 
Number - Used for identifying resources that belong to specific projects

Cloud Resource Manager API - programmatic creation of projects

GCP IAM
2 kinds of roles: 
Primitive -  
Curated - Finer grained access control to specific services within a project 
Owner - can do all plus add users 
Editor - Can spend money
Viewer - read only
Each project is attached to an account.

IAM - 
Who
Can do what
On which resource

Google Defines roles. 

Every resource must be in a project. 

One thing to be aware of - a more restrictive right at a lower level does NOT trump less restrictive rights at a higher level.

Organization Node - Adding users to organization adds them to each sub project 

Service accounts - provide an identity for server - server 
Used to auth from one service to another
Can be used with primitive and curated roles
Identified with an email address

Users are identified by their email and password.
Service accounts use keys to login. For app engine and compute engine, Google manages keys for you and rotates them periodically. Or you can manage your own keys if needed.

Cloud shell is a browser based SDK that allows you to use it for command line access

Google Cloud Client Libraries

App Engine

Cloud Datastore is a completely managed NoSQL instance

App Engine is PaaS for building scalable web apps and mobile backends. 

App Engine seamlessly starts the new version of your app and stops the old version for a bugfix

App Engine Autoscales for you and brings up / shuts instances off for you

There are no load balancers to configure - no patches to install. It just works

App Engine manages the hardware, networking infrastructure, load balancing, monitoring and scaling required to run your code.

Snapchat is a great example of App Engine success. They quickly release new versions live.

App Engine Standard - uses Google Containers

AE can handle services that are written in different languages

Use Cloud Datastore to save data in App Engine applications

AE Flexible environment. Uses Docker containers.

GCP Storage Options

Cloud Storage, Cloud SQL, Cloud Bigtable

Cloud Storage (GCS) - Standard, DRA (Durable Reduced Availability) and Nearline Storage 
All options provide 11-9s of availability and low latency. 
Multi-regional offers 99.95 availability
Regional offers 99.9 availability

Standard Use cases - For frequently access data around the world. Serving website content, streaming videos, gaming/mobile apps 

Nearline/Coldline - infrequently accessed data. backups, archives, DR. 

Storage can be used for CE scripts or as a staging area for data going into Cloud SQL

Bigtable is NoOps, NoSQL - automatically replicated across zones.

Bigtable is used by gmail and analytics

Use bigtable for large amounts of unstructured storage, larger than 1TB

Cloud SQL is MySQL in the cloud , but is fully managed.

Cloud SQL includes a firewall









